Friends, in this video we will
discuss health insurance. Now,
regarding our health insurance product,
today everyone knows that
we should have a good health insurance policy. But the problem arises.
People know the
importance of health insurance, but they do
n't understand where to purchase a good
health insurance policy.
People get confused about whether they should buy
ICI or ADAC, or
where to buy it. The second
confusion is that people don't know the
terms of health insurance. For example, what is the
restoration benefit? What are
your pre- and post-hospitalization
expenses? What is copay? There are
many such things. In a way,
everyone knows
that medical inflation is very high in India.
People also know that it is
important to have a health insurance policy.
But why do people back out?
Because people don't understand the terms of health insurance and
then they don't understand
where to purchase the health insurance
policy.  In this video,
I promise you this much that
what is health insurance, from where to purchase it,
which health insurance policy to purchase, all these
things,
what are the terms of health insurance, that is,
you just stay tuned to the video, I
promise you this much that even if a fifth
class child watches this video completely, I will
explain to him everything from A to Z of health insurance today. First of all, let
me tell you what we will discuss in this video.
Look, first of all,
I will tell you a very basic thing that
health insurance policy is
an individual policy, secondly we
can take a family floater, I will
tell you the difference between these. Secondly, I will tell you about
health insurance, like
I have taken health insurance for my entire family, so
recently, it was last week,
my mother had an eye problem, she had
cataract, right, then after
going to the hospital, it is a small process, that is, it is a
15-20 minute process, it is a small
surgery, she has to be done on the eye, if that is done then it costs
almost Rs.  The
total hospital bill came to around Rs. 1000. Okay, so
I will tell you now
how I raised the claim for my mother's policy.
I will show you all the screenshots
of how
I went to my health insurance
policy application after the doctor created the entire file
and how I raised the entire claim.
This will give you a lot of confidence that this is the
interface we have to submit the claim like this. If you
understand the matter, then you will
understand it better when you learn practically. After that, I will show you some
comments like the last video I made on
health insurance,
comments come in it. Now, not every comment is
replied to, so I
took some comments, they are good comments,
I took screenshots of them. Then
we will reply to those comments as well. We will also answer the doubts of people in
this video.
Okay, after that,
we will discuss some basic things like what is a
top-up plan in health insurance,
what is a super top-up,
restorative benefit, copay, pre-post
hospitalization.  Expense claim
settlement ratio, we will discuss all these things
and in the last there is a moratorium period, we will
discuss about that, that is, I will
make the video very leisurely, I am telling you in advance that the
video may become a little long,
but I promise that I will
not hurry and will try my best to
explain to you every single thing, even the most basic, in this video. First of all let's
start with what is health insurance,
see, health insurance is a simple
agreement with your insurance company,
okay, for example, suppose there
is any company like EQYZ, I am not taking anyone's name,
nor will I promote anyone
in this video that you should buy from here,
buy from there, my only aim is to
tell you about health insurance, suppose EQYZ is an insurance
company, from this I have purchased
a health insurance for myself for example, of ₹10 lakh,
right here I will
write my name Ankit, okay sir,
and here I have purchased a health insurance for myself of ₹10 lakh  I have
purchased health insurance from this company. Okay,
now suppose God forbid, I face
any medical problem tomorrow and
I have to get admitted in the hospital
and suppose the hospital bill comes to ₹1 lakh, then this
insurance company of mine will pay the
entire bill. Because
I purchased health insurance from it,
suppose I purchased health insurance of ₹10 lakh from it.
My agreement was
that my annual premium would be
₹10 lakh. Okay, so that means I will keep giving
₹5000000 to this insurance company every year.
But whenever a
medical problem arises, here
my sum insured is up to ₹1 lakh, that means up to ₹1 lakh. If
I need it, I can take money from this company.
Okay, now one more thing
comes, one is an individual health
policy, like here I have taken it
from XYZ company, only for Ankit,
only for Ankit and
not for anyone else. Okay, so this is it.  There is only
one individual and a family floater. Okay, yes,
what happens in a family floater? Suppose there are three
people, one is the husband, one is the wife and let's say there is a
child, let's say there is a daughter.
Okay, these three people
want to take insurance of ₹1 lakh.
So the first option is that the husband can take a policy of ₹1 lakh
separately, the wife can take a separate policy
and a separate policy can be taken for the daughter, but this
will be expensive, but the advantage in it will be
that they can use up to ₹10 lakh. They can use up to ₹10 lakh for
their personal use, and the
daughter can use up to ₹10 lakh separately.
One option is that all three of them together can take a family
floater plan. It means that they will
get a maximum plan of ₹10 lakh only. Now,
suppose the husband gets admitted, okay, the
husband's claim comes, ₹8 lakh, then ₹8 lakh is
still left with the family. Then suppose the
wife  If the wife needs,
suppose she needs ₹ lakh, then she will also
get it from this, now only ₹ lakh is left, now suppose
God forbid the daughter needs ₹ lakh and
now only ₹ lakh was left in the
balance, so she will get ₹ lakh more, then she will have to
pay from her pocket, this is a
family floater policy, its advantage is that
suppose if you buy a family floater of ₹ lakh, then it is the
same thing where an individual
gets ₹ 5000000 lakh, then the entire family
can use it, okay, it is simple, this is the only
difference, so
which one is better for an individual and a family, suppose if they are of the
same age group, for example, if there is a husband
whose age is 30 years, the wife is 29, suppose there is a
child of two or three years in the house, then all
three of them together can buy a family floater,
but never with their parents
For example, suppose this is the family, the
age of the husband's parents in their house, let's say the
father's age is 62, the mother's age is 60,
so why don't you take them with you? Because the
family floater policy is
prepared in such a way that if
you add as many members in the family, the
total will be determined according to the age of the one who is the oldest, your
premium will be determined. Understood the point, so if suppose
I add a person of 62 years, then there is
no benefit in this,
now the entire family will have to pay the premium according to the age of the person of 62 years,
understood the point, so what I was getting for Rs. 7000,
I will get the same for Rs. 14000,
okay, so what you have to do is
take a separate policy for the same age group
and for the elders here, let's say those who are
60-62 years old, you
can take a separate family floater, okay, the rest of the
individuals have their own factors,
now we will discuss all those things a little.  Let's see how the policy looks like, for example,
here is my mother's policy, that is,
how I have taken it, mother's
policy is separate and father's policy is separate, so
both of them are individual, my policy,
my wife's policy and my Gudiya's policy is
a family floater plan, right, my
mother's policy is of ₹ 1 lakh,
and my father's paw policy is
also of 25 lakh, and my
family floater, that is, I, my wife and
Gudiya, we have taken a policy of ₹ 1 lakh,
now I will show you the screenshot of mother's policy
so that
you get a little clarity on how the policy looks
because you must have seen many videos till now,
YouTube0 is super top up, this is enough,
friend, you should see a little practical, if you do
not have a health insurance policy, then
how does the policy look like, how can we claim it,
you should get more idea from these things,
okay, if you watch the video even a little bit,
what is the amount written in the information, ₹ 1500000 i.e.
how much is the sum insured  It is 310000 but
I had just told you that I have taken a policy for my mother for
2555 lakhs. I had taken the policy for 25
lakhs but since the time I had taken the policy,
I have not made any claim.
Recently, this year I had an eye problem so I have
filed a claim for cataract because I had
not made any claim. So there is a no claim
bonus in this, that is, suppose in the first year I paid the sum
insured, oh sorry, in the first year
I paid the premium, okay, I
gave the money to the company that I purchased the policy,
but for the whole year I did not make any claim, so the
next year this policy was increased by 10, that is,
my sum insured of 25 lakhs has
now increased to 270000. The premium is the same, the money
I am paying to the company is fixed every year,
but the
company has increased the sum insured for my mother, okay, so
it has increased and reached 31 lakh 50000.
Okay, so it looks something like this here.
Secondly, I am
not sitting here to tell that I have a
policy.  Which one is it and last time also I had
made a video, so I had told
that people think that this is the policy that they have to
take, see, according to me,
this policy is fitting for me as per the needs of my family, it is
possible that someone at home may have some
different problem, it is possible that someone at home may
already have some pre-existing disease, it is
okay to take one thing for example, suppose
someone already has a sugar problem
or BP problem or heart
problem, then take such a policy in
which there is at least a waiting period for pre-existing disease,
I will explain this to you later, what
I mean to say is, do not look at
which policy I have taken, you should also
take the same policy, your need may be different,
someone else's need may be different, so
according to your need you have to select the insurance company,
well we will see all those things later, the
main thing is this, okay, so this
policy looks something like this, the complete
details are visible here, okay and if suppose
someone has a proper claim  If you need it, then there
is an option of claim below, you
can click on it as well. Okay, similarly I will
show you the family floater policy. This policy
looks like this. It was a policy of 50 lakhs but after including the
no claim bonus, the sum insured is now 8 lakhs.
Okay, the sum insured is 58 lakhs. It is
completely written here that it is a
family floater. Look here is the
wife's name, here is the baby's name and
here is my name. Okay, so this is
our complete family floater policy.
Okay, now let me
show you that recently my
mother had a problem. Okay, so as soon as I
click on the claim option, an
interface like this appears. All these
details appear. The policy number appears.
Here I have to fill in the address.
After that, I have to click on proceed below.
This is a simple, just a small
process. Suppose now an operation has been done.
When my mother had the operation, we did
not take cashless option. Okay, it meant that
let's go and get it done and then we will pay the bill.
If you inform your insurance company a day in advance, then the
entire treatment can be cashless,
but I did not take cashless treatment because on the
day we went there, the doctor told us to get it done
today itself, so we said
okay, we will pay the amount from our pocket
and then file the claim. As soon as the
operation was done, the total
bill was almost around Rs 43,000, so I kept all those bills and
their photos. I will tell you everything now.
I am telling you
how to raise a claim. If you
opened the application, there was an option to raise a
claim, as I showed you the screenshot earlier,
here
you have to click on the option of raise a claim, after that something like this will
appear here, you just have to enter the address,
then it is asking which expenses are
yours. The first thing it is saying is pre and post
hospitalization expenses. What are these
expenses? Suppose someone had a
heart problem, right after that
he went to the doctor, the doctor said that
it will have to be operated, you will have to be admitted for
three-four days.  Okay, so it is not like that
before admission
he would not be taking any medicine, he would be taking some
medicine or the other and after admission he is
discharged, even after that some
medicine or the other would be taking place, so the cost of medicines before admission
and the
cost of medicines after going home after admission, this is called
pre-hospitalization and post-
hospitalization expenses, so if there is any
medicine expense before
and after admission then you have to click on this, if suppose it is
hospitalization reimbursement,
what expenses were incurred when you were admitted in the hospital, we call it
hospitalization reimbursement, if you
want to claim for it and the third one is OPD,
okay, you went, got your treatment done and came
back home on the same day, okay, this is
called OPD, so our cataract
comes under OPD only, so I
will click on this option because
OPD is covered in my health insurance policy,
OPD is not covered in some policies,
okay, then after that here you have to
enter the name of the hospital, pin code,
state, city, basic when admitted  When were you
discharged? You have to enter basic details like claim
amount like in my case it was almost 4344, I do
n't remember the exact amount, so
whatever your claim is, suppose it is 40 3000, then you have to
enter that amount and then
click on proceed here, okay,
after that on the next page it will ask who is
filing the claim, like I have taken a policy for my mother,
so I entered my name,
entered my bank account number, bank
name, IFSC code,
PAN card, entered all these details, then I will proceed, now here you have to
upload the payment receipt that the doctor
gave you, okay, all the hospital bills have to be entered there, the
bank account number that you are entering has to be put, its
cancelled cheque has to be put here, okay, the cheque book which
should be there, you will write cancel here on this cheque,
upload its photo here, okay,
so that it can verify the bank account number,
okay, then you have to enter these hospital bills, if there is
any medicine bill, you have to upload that,
all these things have to be uploaded as soon as you
upload
whatsapp2 has been deducted here, this bill is
almost ₹ 33000, apart from that there was the
cost of some medicines, all these
photos, the entire file which the doctor has
made, you have to upload all of them
because these go for verification,
then it takes five days, then when
your claim comes, you have to
upload all these files there, only then
your claim gets settled,
okay, so these are all the things which
you have to take care of, well the main thing also comes that from
where should I purchase health insurance, now I have told you here that
yes, okay, what is the process and this is the same
process for every company, suppose
you have a policy of TA, III or anyone, the
process is the same for everyone,
but the question arises that from where should I purchase,
see, everyone has their own need, you
understand the matter, if someone has a pre-assisting
disease, then he should
purchase the health insurance policy from such a place.
Where the waiting period for pre-aging disease is
negligible, if someone wants maternity benefit
then he will give such a policy where
maternity benefit is available only after one or two years, so
everyone has their own need, you understood the
point, then the best platform for this
is Ditto Insurance,
okay, I will show you once
what are the benefits of Ditto Insurance, I will give
you the link of this Ditto Insurance
in the description box, as soon as
you click on it, some such interface will
appear in front of you, right here,
if you want to purchase health insurance, then
first you want to
read a little about health insurance, then here
you have to click on health insurance,
click on this first document,
or you
can read everything related to health insurance, right, similarly,
suppose someone wants to buy a life insurance term
plan, then he can read everything about that too,
suppose you want to purchase insurance, then
here simply you have to
click on buy insurance, after that it is
saying  That you select a time slot
of half an hour, in a way their
expert will discuss with you completely, will
understand what
type of your need is, whether the person for whom you
want to take health insurance has any
problem or not, he will understand each and every thing and
then will give you two-three recommendations
that you can take from there, right, from
here you can select any time slot,
okay, from here, for example, suppose
you need health insurance or you
need a term plan, so we are
looking at health insurance right now, so from here you
can select a time slot,
you can select any time and you
can confirm the schedule from here, in this you just have to
enter your basic details, name,
mobile number and you
can easily schedule your entire calling with the details,
what is the best part, suppose many times what happens is that
I do not require health insurance
or suppose there is a term plan, okay,
look, there is a term plan, like when we take a term plan, then
what happens in it,
suppose it depends on me  The entire family
is dependent, that's why I need term insurance, right?
But suppose there are five people in my house, all
five of them are doing government jobs, then why do
I need term insurance? In
a way, the good thing about Ditto is
that if someone does
not need a policy, then they explain to him there
that you do not need such a policy and if you need it, then
buy a basic one. So, in a way, this is the
better part. I mean, if you
look at any other aggregator,
what they do is, suppose you enter your phone number or email, then
you will get calls daily,
calling you daily and
telling you something or the other, that you should buy this, buy that,
even a person gets fed up with so many
calls. Ditto has a no spam policy, so
if you feel that okay, you have to
buy this policy or you feel that you do
not want to buy it right now, then you are
not disturbed by calling again and again. Well,
you can easily compare all these things by
discussing with them and the
link of Ditto is this.  I will give it to you
in the description box. Well,
we will proceed on this topic. After that,
I will discuss the comments a little bit.
You will also get some clarity from this discussion. Okay, so the first
comment is this. Last time I
made a video on health insurance, there were a few
comments on it. So let's
see what
doubts people have. Okay, the first one is saying that one
thing I have this comment as it is. I am
reading yours. One thing I did not understand is that if
I have a pre-existing disease and I do
not tell the company that I have a pre-
existing disease and I take a policy
and the waiting period of the policy is, let's say, 1 year
and I make a claim after 1 year, then the
company will take it. Okay, what are you trying to say?
First, before explaining this, let me tell you a
little about how a health insurance policy works.
Suppose today
is January 1, 2025, let's take an example and
you purchased a health insurance policy on January 1, 2025. Right?
What this company says is that in the first 30 days,
suppose you made the purchase on 1st January 2025, then in the
first 30 days i.e. till 30th January 2025,
if you get any fresh disease
about which you were not aware till date, then the
company will not give the claim for that also, that is,
if anything happens to you within the first 30 days, the
company will not
give the claim for that, the company will give the claim for which claim within the first 30 days
only if you have an
accident case,
because accident is such a thing that it is not like
you have had an accident, there is
bloodshed and after that,
after 5-6 days, he is telling the company that he wants to
take the claim, it is not like that within the first 30
days, it is possible that someone already has a
heart problem and he lied to the company about it
on the policy.  If he gets the policy done and gets
admitted and says pay me the
claim, then in that case the company may find something
wrong, so the company says that
within the first 30 days we will
not give you any claim for any disease, it is okay, from 31st day onwards,
as long as the policy is in force, if
you suffer from any fresh disease, the
company will give you the claim, but there is one thing called
pre-existing disease, suppose someone has a
heart problem, right, and the company's
policy says that we will cover pre-existing disease only
when the policy completes 4 years,
so if someone purchases the policy on 1st January 2025
and he has a heart
problem, then on 1st January 2025, 2026, 27, 28,
29, till 1st January 2029, if
he faces any heart related problem, the
company will not give his claim, after that,
suppose if someone suffers from a kidney
problem, he will get the claim,
but for heart related problems  If there is any
problem related to it, the company will not give the claim for it.
After January 1, 2029, if he has a heart
problem then it will be covered, so
we call this a pre-
existing disease and these 4 years are
called waiting period. Now I
want to ask in the comment that suppose
if the waiting period of a company is one year,
right, and they lie to the company
that I do not have any disease. Let's suppose
someone has a heart problem and
he says that the waiting period of the company is
one year, or four years. Generally, it is three
or four years, but in the comment
he has written that suppose the waiting period is
one year, for one year he does not tell anything to the company. He deceives the
company by lying that he is
fit and fine. He has
purchased the health insurance policy. Suppose there is a
waiting period of one year, after one year it is fine. He
says that for one year, suppose if any
heart-related expense arises, then he will
bear it from his own pocket, but after one year, he goes to the
hospital.  They go and get admitted and
say that I have a fresh
illness, right? Will their
health insurance company pay the claim in that case? Look, the
first thing is that when you go to the doctor and get
admitted, the doctor mentions your entire
history, how long has this been going on?
You won't say that it's a fresh illness,
how long has it been going on, he will
mention all that. And it doesn't happen
that the insurance company pays you the claim properly,
like I just
told you an example that my mother had cataract, so
why is my claim taking 6 days? Because that file will
again go to the hospital, the local
insurance agent of my city will go and
verify it from the doctor, the entire file will be
verified again, only then will the claim come. So, this does
n't happen whenever we take insurance,
whether it is health insurance or term
insurance. Never lie to you.
My mother had a problem with BP, right. It was
n't so much that there would be a
slight spike sometimes, and it was
n't that her BP would go up to 200.  There was just a slight
problem of BP
but still when I had taken the policy for my mother
I had mentioned that mother has
blood pressure problem due to which
I have to pay Rs. 000 extra every month and year
but I am at least sure that
whatever I have taken the policy with absolute good faith, if
you understand the matter then
you should never lie in the policy
because that is of no use, then tomorrow you will buy it and
pay the premium and then the
claim will get rejected, there is
no benefit in that, right, next is this, they are saying,
what is the next comment, they are saying that sir
in my family my sister is 16 years old,
okay sister is 16 years old, I am 19
years old, okay father's age is 55 and mother
's age is 39, I understood a lot from your video,
thank you but I am confused whether should I take a
family floater from ICICI or both
sister and father and mother separately from Tata AIG
because father has diabetes and mother has
BP  Please tell me, look, here
both mom and dad have some problem or the other,
right, so first of all, mom and dad should
not buy a family floater together, take a separate individual one for dad,
take a separate individual one for mom
because there is no benefit because there is a
difference in the age of dad and mom, so the
premium will be made unnecessarily according to dad's age
and in that too, he has health problems,
so both of them should buy separately, secondly,
since both of you are sisters, right, you can buy a
family floater, but I would suggest that
both of you buy individually because what will happen is that
after some time, both of you will get
married, when you get married, then you
add your husband in the family floater,
both of you separately, okay, because now if you
already have a family floater, then
first you will have to exit from here, okay,
after exiting, then you will add someone else in
it, so it is better that even if you were
male, you could have taken a family
floater, but it is better that you are
already female, tomorrow you will have to move to another house  If you want to go to Delhi
then it will be better if you take an individual policy.
Otherwise if your age
group is same then you
can also take a family floater policy. If there is a little problem of money
but if you can afford it then you should
purchase an individual health insurance policy only. There are two-three more comments.
Another one is saying
that my family flat floater plan
is with National Insurance for 10 lakhs. I am
46 years old, 44 years old, son is 18 years old and junior son's age is
one year. I am from Kolkata. I have a
pacemaker. Pacemaker is inserted in the heart when the
heartbeat slows down. To
make it faster, a
pacemaker is inserted. People with blood pressure, asthma
and diabetes have the premium in National
Insurance for 10 years. Sorry for 10 lakh
policies, it is 40000. Please suggest a different
insurance company with much less premium. The
answer to this is that please do not shift
because you already have a pacemaker and
blood pressure and  If you have asthma and diabetes as well, then if
your policy is running in the old one, then it is
fine, it is a good thing, if you shift it now,
first of all, the other company will
not accept you because the
reason is that you have some health
problem right now, then why would the other company want
me to bring a person
who has a high probability
of giving a claim, first of all, you should not exit it,
okay, you should not exit it at all, let the
policy which is running with you continue
because if another company takes it, then it will
also have many hidden conditions, if a waiting
period is added then it will create problems for you, so it is
better that where you are running,
I understand that your
premium is a little high, but right now you need it for the
time being, you will have to pay this premium
and you should neither close it
nor switch it to another place, okay,
after that, the next comment is this, your
video seems quite helpful, but I have a
question for you, will the
basic plus top up plan simple nice be
good for us parents  If you look at the basic plus super top
up, you should not take this top up and super top up, it
means it is a
way to make you crazy, what happens is, suppose
someone takes a policy of ₹1 lakh, one thing happens
that he takes the basic sum insured of ₹1 lakh,
right, one happens that he takes a policy of ₹5 lakh
and on top of that he takes a top up or top up of ₹50 lakh, then what happens is that
suppose under top up
or super top up, both
are almost the same, you have to pay the base plan
from your pocket and
whatever expenses are there above that, you
can use top up or super top up,
but the problem is that
for the long term, I would simply suggest you that
you should keep your base plan good, whether
you want to take a policy of ₹10 lakh, you want to take a policy of ₹
25 lakh, you want to take a policy of ₹50 lakh, keep your base plan good,
you should get involved in
top up, super top up or there is one thing called
restoration benefits.  Don't
read into it, these are good for the short term
but for the long term there is something more
interesting in it, no, okay, let's
understand a few things after that, no claim bonus,
I explained it to you in the beginning itself that
yes, suppose you have a
policy of 10 lakhs continuously, you did not make any claim in the first year, then
now your sum
insured will increase by 10 lakhs, your policy sum
insured will now become 11 lakhs, the premium will remain the same
because you did not make any claim,
then suppose you did not make any claim in the second year also, then
now it will increase by 110000, so
your sum insured will become ₹1000000 and your
premium will remain the same, so this is
no claim bonus, right, after that there are a few
things which you have to keep in your mind,
first cashless treatment, from whichever
place you are purchasing the health insurance policy,
check whether they have cashless
treatment or not, brother, it should not happen that you have to
spend 10 lakhs on health and
that company is saying that once you have to take out your pocket  If you give it to us,
then we will give it to you, then what is the benefit of it,
suppose someone does not have Rs 10 lakh,
then he is stuck, so
that company should have cashless treatment,
secondly there should be maximum number of network hospitals, or
that company should have tie-up with maximum number of hospitals,
then the pre and post
hospitalization cover should be long, suppose
someone gets admitted here, then some company
says that we will give the claim of medicines only for 30 days before and
60 days after admission,
some company says that we will give the cost of medicines for
120 days before and 1220 days
after your admission, so
for me this thing will be better, so the
company which has long pre and post hospitalization cover is better for us,
right, then similarly the claim settlement ratio is like this,
suppose if 100 claims come to the company
and the company
passes the claims of 98 out of 100 people, right, then its claim
settlement ratio becomes 98, so people say that
whose claim  The higher the settlement ratio, the
better it is. There is one thing, such as the hard claim
ratio and solvency ratio. Don't read into all these things, just do
a simple calculation of the
brand value of the company from which you are
going to purchase health insurance, for example,
compare such good companies, then
after that, when you purchase health insurance from them, then
from there you can see that in the
health insurance policies that you are
getting, you just have to see
what all things are there according to you, I
mean, are you understanding the thing that suppose someone has some already
existing problem, then he should
look for pre-existing cover that he should get for the minimum time, are you
understanding the thing that pre-
existing disease should be for the minimum time, I mean, suppose
someone has a kidney problem, then it is
obvious that he will buy
health insurance from a place where the
waiting period for a pre-existing disease is one or two years,
he will not buy from a place where the waiting period is three or
four years, so the rest  You have to look at the brands as per your convenience.
You know that you have to purchase health insurance from the
five-seven good brands in India only.
Then maternity benefit is the same
thing. If someone knows that they are going to get married, then they should
choose a company which provides maternity
benefits. Okay, then the
meaning of restoration benefit is that suppose
someone has a health insurance policy of ₹10 lakh.
Right, a
health insurance policy of ₹10 lakh is a very good
thing, but suppose he has used 9 lakh out of 10 lakh.
Now the year is not over,
after 6 months he gets sick again and
he has to spend ₹1 lakh again. Then the restoration
benefit says that it was a policy of 10 lakh,
you had used 9 lakh. No problem,
as soon as you come out of the hospital,
we will refill it again. Now again
your claim is of 6 lakh, no problem,
we will give you ₹6 lakh. So this is the
restoration benefit, so if
You are getting this free of cost in some company, it is a
good thing, so you can consider it,
okay, do not take copay. Copay means
that suppose you have a policy of 10 lakhs,
sum assured of 000, sorry, it is a policy of 10 lakhs,
your premium is going to be 000, you say let's do
one thing, I will bear the expenses up to 20 lakhs,
okay, suppose if there is a claim,
you are saying that I will bear the expenses up to ₹ 1 lakh,
my company will bear the expenses above that, right,
so what will happen with that is that your premium will
reduce to 5000, right, but there is
no benefit in that, suppose tomorrow you get admitted,
God forbid, someone gets dengue,
and the claim comes for ₹ 135000, then
you will have to bear the entire expense, you understood the point, there is
no benefit in this, copay etc. is
okay, waiting period, this and then OPD
cover, you can see that if it is
available in your company, then it is a good thing, so all these
things were in this  I
hope you found this video information related to health insurance,
if you still have any doubts then please
ask by commenting below, otherwise if you want to take any health
insurance policy or term plan from Ditto then I will give
you the link of the same
in the description box, right, for
now this is the end of the video,
thanks for listening and thank you all.